## Abstract
The current study exemplifies the Deese–Roediger–McDermott paradigm (DRM) or how a word’s connotation and relation impacts how humans can recognize whether or not a word was in a studied word list whose words all relate to a singular subject (food).  Participants studied a list of words related to food and were later shown around a dozen words.  Some words were not in the original list but were related to food, while other words did not relate to food and were not in the original list. Meanwhile, some words were in the original list.  Each participant’s college major (psychology or not), age, ethnicity, and gender were collected, but only college major was included in the results.  Results suggest that one’s college major does not influence how well someone recognizes whether or not a word was in the ordinal study list.  However, there was a main effect of word relatedness.  The findings confirm decades of previous research about the DRM paradigm.  Priming or exposure to selective information will impact how you perceive subsequent stimuli.  This facet can be applied to not only this study but also everyday life.  For example, exposing yourself to information inconsistent with your self-schema can cause confusion.  In the current study, exposure to food-related words followed by questions about food-related words in the list and not in the list also led to slower reaction times (confusion) and worsening accuracy.
Keywords: DRM, college major, relatedness, psychology, false recognition, correct recall, accuracy
 
## DRM: College Major As a Predictor of Word Recognition
Memory is an aspect of our cognition that deserves all the attention it gets.  This associative way of perceiving the world is a fundamental element of mankind.  Our self-schema is formed through all the experiences we had.  To scientifically reinforce this theory the DRM, or the Deese–Roediger–McDermott paradigm, assesses our false memory rates.  Numerous studies have combined the relatedness of words with other compounds to explore other underlying predictors of correct recognition of words.  Gunter, Ivanko, and Bodner (2005) attempted to measure the accuracy rate at which people recognize words based on word-relatedness using the DRM paradigm.  The results concluded that false recognition decreased in unrelated words, however correct recognition of related words decreased as well.  Falsely recalling a word was not especially influenced by studied words.  Overall, memorizing the list of words was not a critical component of recognition accuracy.  This article was extraordinarily similar to how our study was conducted and this research can shed light on the complexity of how studying a list of words does not always improve performance.
Furthermore, other researchers also ran a DRM paradigm experiment that produced data to suggest that an acute stress group and a control group (less stress) did not differ significantly in false recollections.  These results did however differ in correct recall rates in that acute stress negatively impacts recollection of correct recalls.  Cortisol rates also had no influence on false recollection rates.  The last finding implies that men, compared to women, had more errors in general for recall rates.  This study highlights more factors of recall rates other than the college major of participants. One’s sex and stress level were the key elements of how well people are at recalling and false recognition.
In addition, the Department of Psychology at the University of Otago in New Zealand studied the DRM in the context of age.  Adults and children were the groups in question and they yielded fascinating results.  In rates of short and long lists, 7 and 14 words respectively, adults faired better for both lengths.  Although, in the long-list condition adults falsely recalled significantly more words than children.  False recognition rates did not differ between children and adults in the short-list condition.  Longer lists produced more false recalls than shorter lists.  Ultimately, adults benefited more from studying longer lists than when children studied from longer lists.  This compound is something that also had to do with our participants.  A student’s major is important, but so is how old they are and their knowledge capacity.  Granted, the present study illustrates this difference more dramatically in the sense that our participant’s ages will not differ to the degree they did in this study (children vs adults), but this information is critical when it comes to understanding why and how people recall words.
Moreover, simple performance analysis is just one portion of how DRM can be used to measure memorization skills.  Applying the data from these studies to increase performance is another step in research for the topic of DRM.  Melissa D. McConnell and R. Reed Hunt (2007) from the University of North Carolina and the University of Texas, respectively, were also curious about performance feedback within DRM studies.  Simply put, the data suggests that the feedback group performed better on subsequent trials than the group that did not receive feedback.  This is an increase in error correction and overall correct recall rates.
Finally, this empirical research tested the external validity of DRM-styled experiments.  Are DRM errors directly indicative of how good one’s memory is?  Ost, Blank, Davies, Jones, Lambert, and Salmon (2013) would argue against this common assumption.  Participants were shown a video and then a post-event video recapping the original video, but it was complete nonsense and not accurate regarding the original video.  From the participant’s perspective, a seemingly meaningless DRM test was conducted.  The results display a concept that the researchers predicted - false recognition is not necessarily derived from false memories.  The participants were previously shown a video that illustrated various false memories of a video.  With a predisposition to incorrect or mismatching memories in their minds, participants were then more likely to falsely recall.
Method
## Participants
Participants (N = 42) consisted of both psychology (n = 27) and non-psychology majors (n = 15). The sex of our participants was mostly female (54.8%), with males representing 16.7% and unidentified sex’s representing 28.6% of all participants.
## Materials & Design
Participants were shown a “study list” of words all related to food then asked to solve 3 math problems as a distraction. Moreover, they were asked if subsequent words were in the original list. Some words were related to food but were not on the list, while other food-related words were. Also, some words were not related to food. 
## Procedure
The order of the word relatedness was randomized, on top of that the math problems made it harder to go straight from the study list to the word relatedness questions.  Data was then organized by participant, then the mean reaction times for related and unrelated words were calculated, as was the number of incorrectly and correctly identified words. Then this data was summarized in a table in Excel, which was eventually analyzed in SPSS.
